---
layout: post
date: 2017-04-22 18:28:00
categories: EffectivePython
---

# 01 - Pythonic
## Key differences between bytes, str, and unicode
> In Python 3, there are two types that represent sequences of characters: bytes and str.Instances of bytes contain raw 8-bit values. Instances of str contain Unicode characters.  
> In Python 2, there are two types that represent sequences of characters: str and unicode. In contrast to Python 3, instances of str contain raw 8-bit values. Instances of unicode contain Unicode characters.  
> There are many ways to represent Unicode characters as binary data (raw 8-bit values).The most common encoding is UTF-8. Importantly, str instances in Python 3 and unicode instances in Python 2 do not have an associated binary encoding. To convert Unicode characters to binary data, you must use the encode method. To convert binary data to Unicode characters, you must use the decode method.  

## Slice
e.g. `somlist[start:end:stride]`
> Slicing and then striding will create an extra shallow copy of the data.  
> Specifying `start` , `end` , `stride` in a slice can be extremely confusing.  
> Avoid using start, end, and stride together in a single slice. If you need all three parameters, consider doing two assignment (one to slice, another to stride) or using **islice**  from the **itertools** build-in module.  

## Use List Comprehensions Instead of map and filter
> 1. List comprehensions are clearer than the **map** and **filter** built-in functions because they don’t require extra **lambda** expressions.  
> 2. List comprehensions allow you to easily skip items from the input list, a behavior **map** doesn’t support without help from **filter**  
> 3. Dictionaries and sets also support comprehension expressions.   
## Avoid else Blocks after for and while loops
> 1. Using a **break** statement in a loop will actually skip the **else** blocks.  
> 2. **else** block will run immediately if you loop over an empty sequence.  
### Things to Remember
> 1. Python has special syntax that allow **else** blocks to immediately follow **for** and **while** loop interior blocks.  
> 2. The **else** block after a loop only runs if the loop body did not encounter  a **break** statement.  
> 3. Avoid using **else** blocks after loops because their behavior isn’t intuitive and can be confusing.  

